# Portfolio
Welcome to my portfolio! This is a repository where you can view all my projects I have implemented in fields such as machine learning and software engineering. I hope these projects are of interest to you and you learn something from them!

# Notable Projects
1) MyMedCab - Medication Management System
2) ParkCheck - A Voice-Based Parkinson's Detection System
3) GeekText API - Profile Management Feature

# Project Descriptions
1) MyMedCab: This is my most proudest accomplishment throughout my career at FIU. MyMedCab was my capstone project where I had the privilege of working with four other individuals to develop a medication management system in the form of a web application that was developed using TypeScript, React, Express, Node.js, and relational database (PostgreSQL) hosted on Amazon RDS. The application allows users to keep track of their medications. When a patient signs in to the application, they must first input their name, date of birth, and patient identification number, and upon a successful sign in, the patient is prompted to the dashboard in which they can view multiple features, organized in containers. The first thing they can view is a panel that shows their information, in addition to their assigned physician. Next, users have access to a table in which they can view their prescribed medications and when they click on a medication, they can view information such as the dosage (i.e. how much to take), the period and frequency (how often one should take a medication), and the type of medication (syrup, pill / capsule, etc.). Additionally, a map was integrated so that users can check where a medication is available and how much of that medication is available. For the purposes of this project and time constraints, we based our locations in CVS Pharmacies within Miami, Florida.
     When a physician signs in to the application, they must input their name, select their specialty, which was implemented using a drop-down feature, and their specialist ID number. Upon a successful sign in, the physician is prompted to their own dashboard in which they have a variety of containers. The first container shows the patients that have been assigned to them alongside their information, and when they click on a patient, they can view the medications that have been assigned to a patient. Additionally, physicians have access to a prescription builder in which they can create new medications for a patient - the doctor can input the dosage, period and frequency, type of medication, and dates, specifically when it was prescribed and when the next prescription can be scheduled for. Moreover, as a physician clicks on a patient and sees their assigned medications, there is a container that displays the medications. Upon clicking on a mediction, the physician has the option to either edit the medication or delete it entirely from the patient. Lastly, just like the patients, physicians also have a map feature to keep track of nearby pharmacies.
   This project was implemented with the help of four other students and we worked under an Agile environment using Scrum practices - daily standups, backlog grooming meetings, sprint review, and sprint retrospective. Throughout the project, I served as team leader, product owner, scrum master, and of course, a developer. In each iteration, I felt like a real-world software engineer, overseeing the design and development of the project while providing my own contributions as well.

2) ParkCheck: A machine-learning based model that was designed using data from the UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository to predict the likelihood of an individual having Parkinson's Disease. What led me to design this project was the background I come from, specifically on my father's side. My grandfather and uncle were both neurosurgeons in Nicaragua, my father was a physician in Nicaragua and operated his own clinic, before coming to the United States in 2000 with my family where he became board-certified in ultrasonography and was a program director at a local institution where he taught students principles of ultrasonography, and my oldest brother currently works in clinical research. As for myself, I am passionate about computer science but I also have a keen interest in medicine, primarily anything in the neurological section. Parkinson's Disease as we know, is a neurodegenerative disorder than can affect one's cognitive / motor abilities and as medicine becomes advanced, so must technology.
     This machine-learning model utilizes a dataset from the UCI ML Repository, a Random Forest Classifier, and supervised learning metrics such as a confusion matrix, accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. The project was implemented using Python, and libraries such as scikit-learn, pandas, matplotlib, and seaborn, each with their own purposes - Scikit-learn to handle the RFC, pandas to read and extract the data, and matplotlib / seaborn to generate the confusion matrix and other supervised learning values.

3) GeekText API: RESTful API for a bookstore application that I had the privilege to work on during my introduction to software engineering course. This was a group effort and the API had a variety of features including but not limited to, book browsing and sorting, profile management, shopping cart, book details, book rating and commenting, and wish list management. I was in charge of implementing the profile management. It was in this course that I learned about working in Agile environments, primarily Scrum. The project was divided into various iterations where we had daily standups, sprint reviews, and sprint retrospectives. On separate iterations, I had the opportunity to serve as a product owner and a scrum master. I was able to lead my group on certain occassion and address any comments or concerns while providing design and developments.
     This project was implemented using Java and Spring Boot (Java), alongside a relational database (PostgreSQL) that was hosted on Amazon RDS - it was in this project where I learned about AWS and cloud databases. This was done so that everyone in the group could provide real-time updates within the database server. As I stated, I was in charge of working on the profile management feature and the purpose of it was to retrieve a list of all the users and their information from the database, creating new users with new information, creating credit cards for the users, and updating any user information as needed. During the final iteration of the project, we worked on the testing phase in which a smoke test was used to ensure that the RESTful API was functioning properly from data retrieval to creation to validation. 


# About Me:

My name is Josue Quinonez. I am a recent graduate of Florida International University (class of 2025) with a bachelor's degree in Computer Science, graduating with a 3.81 GPA (Magna Cum Laude). As of January 2026, I have returned to Florida International University to pursue my master's degree in Computer Science, with a primary focus on artificial intelligence and machine learning. 

# Skills:

- Programming Languages: Java, Python, SQL, HTML / CSS, PHP, C / C++
- Libraries: Scikit-learn, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Spring Boot (Java)
- Database Management: PostgreSQL, MySQL, Amazon RDS
- Fluent in English and Spanish
- Able to work independently / groups, collaborative, problem-solving, decision-making, oral / written communication.
